Okay.
Welcome, everybody.
My name is Mikey McDougall.
I'm from the Java team at Apple,
and I'm really happy to be on
stage to talk about debugging Java.
So, uh,
I see a lot of you have your portables,
so that's really good.
Let's, uh--let's make sure
you're in the right room,
first of all.
So this is, in many ways,
a tips and tricks session.
These are, um,
things that we've gathered over the
last two to three years that we've
found to be really handy in terms
of debugging problems with Java.
And also,
I'm gonna talk a little bit about, um,
sort of what goes on inside Apple,
you know, give you a little bit
of the inside scoop.
And also, you know, we're called the--the
Black Belt Java Debugging Session,
but I don't know any karate.
Um, but I'm gonna deliver a little
bit of action and adventure.
All the stuff that I know about karate,
I learned from watching action movies.
So we're gonna--we're gonna
bring a little of that in.
So this is an overview of what
we're gonna do for the next,
uh, hour to hour and 15 minutes.
I'm gonna talk some
about Developer Previews,
and our Developer Preview process,
and how to work safely
with Developer Previews.
Go really quickly over some of the
basic tools for Java debugging.
Um, I'm gonna talk about some common
problems people bump into in Java.
Hopefully,
if you sit through this session,
I'll--I'll cue you in to some
things that can go wrong,
and we'll save you a bunch of time.
Then we're gonna go really in-depth.
We're gonna analyze one
crash all the way through.
Um, we're gonna go into a section
on how to take things apart.
I learn best not by building things up,
but by picking things apart.
So we're gonna pick things
apart for a little bit.
And then we're gonna
have a hands-on session,
a brief one with Shark,
which is a really great performance
analysis tool that can be used for Java.
And then I'm gonna go and tell
a little bit more about the
sort of inside story at Apple.
So my first section is about
the Developer Previews,
and it's actually just not
the Developer Previews.
It's about working with
buggy software in general.
So here we go.
One of the things that you have to be
prepared for when you're working with
software that's sort of a developer
preview or new is that things might
not go quite exactly how you expect.
But I still think that everyone in
this room should be installing and
running our developer previews.
We work really hard so that
you're the James Bond and you
get away from the villain and,
you know, not--not actually end up with
a big mess on your computer.
So this is where you get
the developer previews.
They're available--actually,
we released the developer preview today.
So Java SE6, Developer Preview 5 is the,
you know,
official name for the whole thing.
We've been--as long
as I've been at Apple,
I've been fighting to get developer
previews out to people like you
because I think that it's a really,
really good way for everybody to win.
The thing about working with
the developer previews is you
take a little bit of risk.
But you get great stuff.
You get all of the, you know,
latest bug fixes.
So you're really, really up to date.
You get to actually work with
Java 6 before sort of the
thousands of people that have
Tiger installed would normally get to.
So you really get to
use the cool new stuff.
And the other thing that's really
important for you as developers
is you actually get our attention.
If you're working with our developer
previews and you file a bug and you say,
"Hey, guys,
this bug is a bug and it's a bug in
your latest developer preview," the
amount of attention that you can expect
from me or from one of my colleagues
goes up a little bit because we know
that you're working where we're working.
So we're sort of in the same space.
At the same time,
you have to be prepared for
a little bit of trouble.
We work really,
really hard to make sure that the
developer previews are really solid.
But like in 2003,
I think it was early 2003, late 2003,
we shipped a developer preview that like
totally hosed everyone who used IntelliJ.
So for like three weeks,
the IntelliJ people were like, "Ah,
what did you guys do?" And then,
you know, three weeks later,
we released another developer preview.
We fixed it.
So--but you have to be prepared
for a certain amount of trouble.
And the other thing is
there is no uninstaller.
So, you know, once you're on board,
you're sort of all the way on board.
So that's two of the things that
you need to be thinking about.
So there's ways to work with developer
previews that we've found to be very,
very successful.
One is to have a sandbox and always
leave yourself a safe place to go to.
And so we're going to do a demo
now of how being prepared helps.
I'm going to bring up
Barry Langdon-Lassane,
one of my colleagues at Apple Computer.
And we're going to do something way
worse than installing a developer
preview that may or may not be flaky.
We're going to do terrible,
terrible things to Barry's machine.
There you go.
BARRY LANGDON- Thank you, Mikey.
Yes, we're going to do dangerous
things to my machine.
Now, there's lots of dangerous things
you can do to your machine.
I'll leave it to your imagination.
This example is a little bit contrived
in that we wrote the installer ourselves.
But let's pretend I was on the internet,
I was surfing the internet,
and I found this really cool application.
And I downloaded it,
and I wanted to install it.
So here's the application.
Let's see what happens when
I install this on my machine.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, warnings, warnings.
It's fine.
So let's install it.
Now, this is going to be important later.
My machine has multiple partitions,
and I'm going to be
destroying one of them.
So I have to pick which
one I want to destroy.
I've got a precious data partition.
Actually, that doesn't have an OS on it,
so it's pretty safe.
An admin partition,
and my development partition.
And the development partition is
where I generally do risky things.
And let's see what happens
when I do something risky.
And I'm going to stop using the mouse,
because it keeps going into--
That mode.
OK.
So I'm going to install this
risky software that I downloaded.
Oh, it asks for my admin password.
Sure.
So it's installing and
I'm feeling good because,
you know,
it's my development partition and
I want to try something new and
see what's going on and uh-oh.
Uh-oh, this looks really bad.
I don't see a dock.
This close button's kind
of flashing and mmm.
Okay, my machine, let's see,
the volume control I think is even worse.
Yeah, my machine is completely hosed.
So hopefully, before Mikey comes back
to me later in the talk,
I'll have my machine back up and running,
and then I'll show you what I did.
So back to you, Mikey.
Mikey McDougall: Back to slides.
So we're real time demoing
how being prepared helps.
So I want to recognize that everyone
has their own technique for being safe.
And you guys are all really smart people.
And there's lots of different techniques.
So this one that we have is tuned for
working with our developer previews.
I reinstall my system software
a lot because I work at Apple.
And one of the things that
I want to just drive home is,
if you're prepared,
you can avoid a whole lot of problems.
So this is Disk Utility.
Many of you folks are familiar with this.
And it's probably hard to read.
So I'm going to zoom in.
This is actually Disk Utility
looking at my machine at home.
And this is how I have-- how I'm set up.
I dedicate four-- I actually
have four boot partitions.
I have one like Barry for my development,
testing, you know, crazy risky stuff.
Actually,
I take it and make a copy of the Tiger,
you know, tent, you know,
original Tiger install DVD.
And I've put that image
right on my hard disk.
It turns out that if you do that and
you boot off that hard disk and you
install a minimal install of your system,
it takes you like a minute
to get yourself back to,
like,
a bootable system on a new partition.
I also, like Barry,
have an admin partition where
I keep mail and all the sort of
applications that I use all the time.
And finally,
I've got-- I have Panther on one of my
things because I do regression testing.
I want to know what's going on.
You know, sometimes I need to step back
a few years and find out what's
going-- what's going down.
I make two partitions,
one for my wife and kids and
myself to sort of live on,
and then another one
for my precious data.
So this is just one way that you can set
yourself up to be prepared for working
with software that you can't uninstall.
So there's some considerations here,
like, how many gigabytes should
I set aside for a partition?
Will I really need to install my
system software all that frequently?
So one thing that's true is, I mean,
you're here today.
We've given you Leopard.
You sort of need to reinstall
your system software.
And it's kind of nice if you
have a separate partition
that's set aside already,
sort of prepared for a
place for that to land.
And it's also nice if you
have a partition that's set
aside for developer previews.
Where if something goes badly wrong,
you can go back to another
place and be happy.
So how much space to set aside?
If you go back to that last slide
and you looked really quickly,
you saw that I set aside 12
gigabytes for my partitions.
And you can get by in 12 gigabytes,
especially with Tiger.
There's enough room there.
But these days,
I would suggest that you set
aside about 20 gigabytes.
When you start getting Leopard on
there and you get something like
GarageBand or some big productivity app,
all of a sudden,
what I thought back in the day
was going to be plenty of room
starts seeming a little tight.
So 20 gigabytes is a
good number these days.
And, you know, I realized I was going
to be telling people,
"Set aside 20 of your gigabytes for
system software." And so I wanted
to figure out exactly how much is
that going to cost in terms of,
like, dollars and cents.
So I went out and
I looked on the web for,
like, prices for hard disks.
It's like $1 to $1.25,
$1.50 a gigabyte these days.
So you get a pretty good insurance
policy for about 30 bucks.
So I think that's a good investment,
so...
There are alternatives.
And some of these alternatives
are very important if you're
doing things like dual booting,
one of the new Intel Macs
to Windows and to the Mac,
because there are certain
difficulties if you try to do a lot
of different partitions and have
one of them be a Windows partition.
So an external bootable
drive is a really,
really good idea.
And another way to do
sort of risky stuff,
you can have your development system
be on an external FireWire drive.
There's some really
great backup software.
I strongly suggest that
everybody back up their really,
really precious data.
And the other thing is I've
talked to some developers,
and they're like, you know,
I'd just stay two developer previews
back or three developer previews back.
I do not recommend that.
But with care and luck and research,
you can be OK.
So that was how to set up to
use developer previews and my
sort of pitch for everyone,
please do install our developer previews.
There's something else,
and I actually bumped into this the
same day that I was putting these
slides together for the first time.
A bit of preparation that you can do
on your machine for when you get hung
or stuck in some really important way.
What I had happen is my user
interface froze up completely.
My mouse wasn't working.
Everything was really sort of frozen.
But I'd encountered
this situation before.
This is my system preferences at home.
And there's two things that
you can select so that when
you get in this situation,
you have some chance of recovering.
One is make sure that
you can remote log in.
And the other thing is I think that
Apple Remote Desktop is a really,
really great tool.
So you can do a whole lot of things
on a machine where your monitor
is just-- your monitor might get
kicked in by some unhappy person.
You can still do a lot with your machine
if you turn on Apple Remote Desktop.
So you ping the machine, make sure,
you know, sure enough it's still running.
You can SSH in.
Once you SSH in,
you have all your old friends.
You can run top to see what's
taking up all the processes.
This is one of my favorites.
You can find out which
Java processes are running,
just in case it's
Java that's hung for you.
And then you can attach to
anything that you might want to.
You do a full investigation
and write up your bug.
So, yeah, so,
So there's two things here,
Developer Previews,
and just two little safety tips.
Make sure that you have at least
one more boot partition somewhere
that you can boot off of.
And I really think that
everyone should enable SSH,
just so you can always
get back in somehow.
So that's Developer Previews.
Let's talk about some of the really
basic tools for Java debugging.
Okay.
So, these aren't quite hand
grenades but--but they're handy.
First of all,
who--who in this room has--has done
this sort of plankton level debugging?
You put a printf in your code, right?
Okay.
Now, who has run into somebody who
is also a developer who's like,
I put a printf in my code and
I don't know where it's going to.
So everyone, I--I felt like I had to
say at the root level,
you can find standard error
or standard out by going to
applications utilities console.app.
Like that's where--that's where
everything sort of spews to.
The other thing is try to make sure
that anything that you actually leave
in your code like that is important.
Because when people are
trying to figure out,
you know, some--something bad has
happened to their machine,
they look there if they're
sophisticated and they see like--if
they see a bunch of logging stuff
and it's coming from your app,
they're going to be like, "Oh,
I know whose problem it is." And it
might not be if you just left logging
turned on or something like that.
So, the other thing is,
I think that everyone should
actually use the right tools.
I'm going to fix this slide.
These are not white belt tools.
These are white box tools.
And this is actually where everyone
should be doing their debugging.
I think that if you can work
with code-- I usually can't
work with code-- that's great.
If you can work with an IDE,
with an integrated debugger,
that's where you should
be doing your work.
That's not where I live.
And so I wanted to give you some
of the tips from where I live.
And these are more like,
not so much black belt tools,
but black box tools.
So I spend a lot of my
time in the terminal,
and there's a couple of things
that you should know are
available in the terminal.
First of all, if Java is running,
you can get a bunch of really good
information about what's happening
in the current Java application
by sending it a sig 3,
a kill dash quit.
And this will cause standard error,
which I mentioned in the slide, like,
one or two back,
to dump out all the thread information.
Any threads that are
deadlocked will come up there.
So you should really know
about kill dash quits.
Really handy for finding out what's
going on with your application.
Also, for the times when you're hung,
sample and GDB-- actually,
GDB is slightly more powerful,
but it's sort of what I think
of as an expert-friendly tool.
It's not really user-friendly.
But you can do a lot of work with GDB.
If you attach to the processing question,
you can do thread apply all backtrace,
and you get a bunch of information there.
And also,
Shark has come to the command line.
So you can actually-- if
you've got a hung application,
you can use Shark to profile it and
get a bunch of information about it.
The other thing is when things go
badly wrong and you're not hung,
but you go so far as to crash,
you need to know where the log files are.
Everyone should know this
information who's in this room
and cares about Java debugging.
I sort of like when I get access to
somebody's machine for the first time.
I kind of go here and find
out how many times Java has
crashed on them and look around.
It's kind of cool.
We're going to go in depth on these
two locations later on in the session.
But everyone needs to hear about them.
There's some really good command line
options that you can pass to Java to
get a bunch of good information that
can help you debug your problems.
This one is probably the most
useful generically speaking.
If you tell Java, dash verbose class,
as every class gets loaded in,
it tells you about
what's getting loaded in.
And if it's often the case that
the last thing that gets loaded in
is the thing that has the problem.
So this can give you a lot of
really good clues as to what's
going wrong with your application
if you have a reproducible problem.
So verbose class.
This one is not so much
for debugging in general,
but for understanding the performance
characteristics of your application.
This is actually really important
to do at some point in your career.
Watch what happens with your application.
Watch how fast or slow garbage
collection is running and some of
the overall characteristics of it.
For folks who are doing user
interface stuff and see something
that might be a little bit off,
and you're wondering, "Is that Apple,
or is that me?" This is a
good option to know about.
You can set the default look and feel,
in particular for Swing,
with an option on the command line.
And this is how you set it to be
not Apple's Aqua look and feel,
but to be the metal look and feel.
So this is very handy.
Now, we've got two different graphics
pipelines now in Java 5.
One with Quartz on, uses all the sort of
underlying Quartz support,
and one with Quartz off,
which uses Sun's 2D renderer.
And so if you're seeing
graphics anomalies,
it's sometimes very interesting to go
from one pipeline to the other pipeline
to figure out just whether-- I mean,
this can be just good information.
The other thing is these
two pipelines have different
performance characteristics,
so it's really a good idea to look at
your application in both situations if
you are sort of performance sensitive,
like many games might be.
And we're going to talk
about Shark later on.
Java needs a little bit of a
clue if you're going to use
Shark's Java-specific profiling
and Mark So,
times when you need to know how
to pass this command line in
if you're going to use Shark,
and Shark is a great tool.
Um, no talk about debugging would be
complete if you didn't talk about leaks.
So there's sort of the-- the quick
and dirty way of finding leaks is
to use jmap -histo for histogram.
And what--if you use this command
and you point it at the process
ID of a running Java process,
it will go through the Java heap,
and it will collect up a list of
every single object that you have,
and it'll put, like,
a number next to each one of those.
You know, like,
I have 10 million integers
or something like that.
And the way to do leak
detection with this is really,
really coarse leak detection is to wait
five minutes while you have some load
on your application and run it again,
see what changes.
Do it a third time, see what changes.
And you can actually get,
at a sort of coarse level,
some really good information
about what sort of leaks your
application may or may not have.
We've managed to use jprofiler to find,
like, really smaller-- so, you know,
there are good tools out there.
I think jprofiler's a good one.
I wanted to give them a plug here.
It's really good for finding leaks,
as-- as anyone uses--no.
So I also polled different
people at Apple to say,
"What's your favorite tool
for finding bugs?" So you
may or may not know that the
Apple Music Store sits on top of Java,
and they run many, many,
many machines with many, many,
many Java processes.
And so when I talked to these folks,
they said that the MXBeans was--
I've never used MXBeans myself,
so the caveat there.
But they swore up and down that
these are the greatest tools for
doing debugging of real-time,
large deployments.
So, MXBeans.
And the other thing is,
there are other good
tools that are coming out.
So the future looks bright.
I have this--most of this session is
like the last three years or two years.
But there are some interesting things
that are coming out in the future.
X-Ray, we've got--we had a
demonstration earlier.
Dtrace is coming in Java 6,
and that will allow you to hook in
at a very sort of fundamental level,
see what's going on.
And finally,
there's a whole lot of JVMTI agents
that are sort of coming online now that
JVMTI is available in a lot of places.
So those are common tools.
Let's talk for a little bit about three
common problems that people bump into
sort of at different levels of Java.
These are sort of the usual suspects.
And you should know about them.
So the first is if you use Swing.
The thing that you need to know about
Swing is Swing is not thread-safe.
We have a lot of people who,
in their second month of Java,
they sort of bump into threads.
And then they combine that with what
they learned in the first month of Java,
which is Swing is cool.
And all of a sudden they have deadlocks.
So you need to know,
if you're working in Swing,
that you need to start to understand how
threading and Java all work together.
You need to learn about the event queue.
You need to learn about
the event dispatch thread,
which is the event queue.
And you make sure that any time
that you're manipulating the user
interface of a Swing application,
you're doing it from the right place.
And one of the ways to do that is to look
up and read about these two utilities.
InvokeLater is the asynchronous version,
and InvokeInWait is the synchronous
version of invoking a method that's
going to call something like that.
on using swing.
Now this is a really fun one,
and everyone should sort of like,
if you're reading your mail,
you should stop reading your
mail and look up at the screen,
because this is kind of important.
Volatile variables are subtle.
You're getting into the realm
of data synchronization here.
So look up at the screen here.
How many people have written
a worker thread like this?
Wow, something is running,
do something again.
Like, really,
really straightforward stuff.
And there's action listeners too.
So who has an action
listener where they're like,
push the button, turn it off?
Right?
Now, this actually can cause huge
problems when you get to a
machine that has multiple cores,
when you have a really
aggressive just-in-time compiler,
and you have the Java memory model,
which allows... Let me pull out
what's really important here.
And that's that this variable here,
which is a Boolean,
is shared across two threads.
Now, we'll just fade out everything
that's not important.
If one of those threads... gets compiled
and sort of aggressively compiled,
the Java memory model allows for
that to be put into a register on,
like, one processor for one thread,
and the same sort of named variable
to be put into another processor,
another register on another
processor in another thread.
So unless you declare this
variable to be volatile,
it's possible that you could
just push this button until
you're blue in the face,
and, you know, the run loop will--I mean,
the working thread will
just keep on working.
And this is a very hard problem to debug,
because if you, like,
put it into a debugger, all of a sudden,
you're not compiled anymore.
You're running interpreted.
And everything sort of
magically works again.
It's one of those vanishing bugs.
So, again,
you need to learn about the threading
characteristics that underlie Java.
Sort of the good news about
being a Java programmer is
you get exposed to threads,
like, two years, three years earlier than
the rest of the world does.
Sort of the bad news is,
you get exposed to threads, like,
two years, three years earlier than
the rest of the world does.
Sort of the bad news is,
you get exposed to threads, like,
two years, three years earlier than
the rest of the world does.
And the good news is,
you really have to think about them.
The last problem that I wanted
to talk about is sort of up
at the user interface level,
not sort of down at
the memory model level.
And that's that dots per inch are not the
same on the Mac as they are on Windows.
And this can bite you.
So the real root problem here
is that when you draw text,
when you draw string,
you're drawing in points.
And points is a fraction of an inch.
And when you draw graphics,
usually you're drawing in pixels.
So if you draw 100
pixel by a 40 pixel box,
and then you pick some font
that you think looks great,
and you just bang it in
there at a fixed offset,
that will look great on one of your
platforms that you might want to support.
But it might not look so great on another
platform that you want to support.
So be aware of this.
Do a little bit of math
and use standard layout.
So just be prepared to handle
this sort of a situation.
So those are the three common
suspects that I wanted to
draw people's attention to.
Swing's not thread safe.
Volatile is important.
And cross-platform layout
can be complicated.
So that was our usual suspects.
Now we're going to go a
little bit more in depth.
We're going to take one crash.
We're going to take it
all the way through.
So people have run into
this problem before,
like they have a crash and you
know you come to some person like,
"Oh you know,
sometimes it just crashes." Well, no,
people do not just
We're going to go into an
analysis of a Java crash.
We're going to take it
all the way through.
The Java information is available
in that first log location
that I mentioned before,
twitto/library/logs/java.
And it'll be in a file that
has prepended to it the process
ID of the crashing thread.
And the native information
is in a similar location.
You guys can all read.
One of the things that you should
know is that analyzing a crash
and analyzing a hang are very,
very, very similar.
So everything that I'm about to go
over for analyzing a crash can sort
of be used in situ for analyzing
a crash if you just sort of gather
the appropriate information.
So all the Java information corresponds
to what you would get out of a kill-quit,
one of the things that
I mentioned earlier.
And all of the native information you
could get out in GDB or by using sample.
So let's look at the really big picture.
So on one side you've got native code,
on the other side you've got Java,
and then you've got threads that sort
of span across them with JNI sort
of making the bridge between them.
We will take a look at
the Java side first.
So we're in Java.
All of this is in library logs java.
So what I actually did is
I went to one of our machines
in one of our labs at Apple,
and we run a test harness.
We run it every night.
Actually we run it several times a day.
And I pulled up one crash that had
happened sort of more than once.
It happened a lot.
One of the things that I've done here is,
if you look at my ls command,
I passed -l for long, -r for reverse,
and t for time so that the
very last crash is sort of at
the very bottom of my listing.
You can end up with a lot of different
crashing threads if you're really
putting a lot of stress on Java.
So it's important to know
that sort of-- it's important
to line things up correctly.
So we're going to look
at process ID 16009.
So this is the view of
java.native.crash from sort of high up.
You guys, I've got this written
in a one-point font,
so I don't expect you
to be able to read this.
The first thing that you have at
the top is the crashing thread,
if Java can find it.
And you get a list of all
the threads that are running.
You get a list of all the
libraries that are active,
and then you get a list
of the VM arguments.
So all these are sort of handy things
to know about Java when it crashes.
And I think that the most important,
most interesting section
is the thread section.
Now you guys, I'm going to take out
A lot of this.
And just make it more readable for you.
This is a lot like what you would see if
you had an exception in Java and you just
did a print stack trace on an exception.
The bottom bits are going to
be more close to your code,
things that you've written.
The top bits are going to be sort
of what Java uses to fulfill the
requests that your code has made.
So if you look closely here at
the bottom is a test case that
we've got written in JUnit.
It's called Close Window While Drawing.
And you can see sort of further on
up the stack that calls Fill Rect,
which is something that pretty
much everyone's familiar with.
And what, you know,
sort of at the top of the stack
is java2d.loops.maskblit.maskblit.
And this is a JNI call and this is one
of your sort of signposts for things.
Now you're in JNI and you're
starting to leave Java.
And so it's good to sort of
fix this in your mind as,
okay, that's the last thing that I did
in Java before the crash happened.
So now we're going to
sort of switch sides.
We're going to go from the
Java side over to the native side.
And we're going to look a little
bit about and follow the crash
through on the native side.
So all this information is in the crash
reporter section of your logs folder.
So again, in a half-point font
that no one can read.
One of the things to know about
a crash log is that in Tiger,
it's all prepended together.
So the first crash is at the front,
and the second crash is
right after the first crash.
And the crash that you're usually
interested in is 125 pages down,
if you're me, and you've crashed a lot.
So one of the important things to know
is you need to look right at the bottom.
So let's take this apart.
There's header information.
Again, when you're running in Java,
you have a lot of threads running,
so there's a list of all the threads.
And then again,
there's a list of all the libraries.
So let's dig into the header.
One of the things that you want to
do is you want to make sure that
you're looking at the right bits.
So I looked at this.
OK, this is about the time
that the crash happened,
so I'm cool here.
The other thing that you want to look at
is you want to look at the process ID,
and make sure that that lines
up with the crash log that
you were looking at before.
So sure enough,
we've got the right process ID.
So we're in 16.0.0.9.
We're good.
The last thing you need to
look at-- I've got this in red
here-- is which thread crashed,
because that's where the real meat
of the problem is going to be.
That's thread 14.
So three important bits-- the date,
the process ID, and the crashing thread.
There's other important bits there,
but those are ones that I find
to be particularly useful.
So there was a bunch of threads.
We want the 14th thread.
So let's zoom in on that.
So the crash thread, again,
is always interesting.
Now I'm gonna color this
for you to make it easier.
Again, you sort of see that signpost
that I told you about before.
So this was the last thing
that we saw leaving Java,
and it's sort of halfway
through the native stack.
So why is that?
Well, every, you know,
I've sort of color-coded
everything for you.
Everything below, in blue, is, uh,
client.dialib.
That's what the native side of
Java-- running Java looks like,
and you can pretty much ignore that.
That's just Java doing
its job running Java code.
Everything above your JNI call
is sort of where things went
wrong on the native side,
servicing whatever JNI request you have.
And you might actually see,
if you have some really
complicated situation,
where you go in and out of, um,
of Java and native code.
So look for things like whether you're
in client.dialib or whether you're in,
say, AWT like we are here.
So let's again take out and show
a few bits to sort of give a few
more clues about what's going
on with this particular crash.
You can see that after we got our
request to blit a bunch of stuff,
we ended up in some code saying, OK,
we're in a drawable context.
Let's finish it up.
OK.
Now we're going to call a free handler.
So now we're starting to get all
the clues about what's going on.
So this is really characteristic of what
happens when you're over on the side of
the world that's not garbage collected,
when you're doing things like
managing memory yourself.
So what's going on here is
we've over-freed something.
We've gotten rid of it and disposed of
it before we were quite done using it.
So while I've got you
in the native crash,
I want to show you a few more things.
Thread 0 is the AppKit thread.
And the AppKit thread is where
a lot of cool stuff happens.
It's where Cocoa sort of
does all of its grinding.
I wanted to show you what sort of
a happy AppKit thread looks like.
So take a sort of closer
look at the screen here.
There's a couple of things.
You'll know that you're
on the AppKit thread.
You'll see something like AWT starter,
start AWT,
if that's sort of a sign that you're
looking at the correct thread.
The other thing is,
this is sort of a happy thread because
it's sitting in Mach message trap plus 7.
So it's just waiting for
something interesting to happen.
So nothing is going wrong.
But I wanted you guys to see,
it's good to know what waiting
threads look like so you
know what you can ignore.
So semaphore.wait,
that's a waiting thread.
Mach message trap,
These are things that you
can sort of safely ignore.
So now that I've told
you what you can ignore,
let's go back to our big picture.
There's the native side
you need to know about,
the Java side, which is where you usually
start your analysis.
There's many threads
that cross across them.
And these are threads that you
need to sort of learn about to do
sort of black belt Java debugging.
The AppKit thread is where,
as I said earlier,
Cocoa does a lot of its work.
So this is a thread that you'll
look at quite frequently,
a thread that you need to know about.
The event dispatch thread is
where Java does all of its work.
So, not all, but much of its work.
And so that's another thread that you
need to sort of learn about a bit.
We actually, in this example,
were in some other
thread when we crashed.
We're thread 14, just a worker thread
that I'd spawned off.
So let's just all tie it together,
so we can have some closure on
this one bug all the way through.
We were in my test,
closed window while drawing.
We called fill rec
somewhere partway through.
You could see further down on the
Java side that we made a JNI call.
Took us across the JNI boundary
to the native side of things.
We did some more native stuff.
And then we crashed.
OK, great.
So that's one bug all the way through.
Except, well, whose bug is it?
Who are you going to
send Bruce Lee after?
Well, in this particular case,
it's Apple.
If you have a crash,
and it's pure Java code,
and you know it's pure Java code,
it may not be our bug.
Wow.
It may not be our bug,
but it's our problem.
So send it to us, bugreporter.apple.com.
I've got this wrong.
Bugreporter.apple.com.
If you see some other odd behavior,
or you know that you have a JNI library
that you've put in place yourself,
you need to sort of apply a
little bit more brain power,
think about what's going on.
So there are other considerations.
One of the things that's really
good in debugging is to know
that configuration matters a lot.
So it's good to have various
versions of Java around.
And of course,
we make that easy for you by
deploying various versions of Java.
But also,
if you can get access to a Linux box or a
Windows box and see if it happens there,
see if the bug happens in Swing
and in both looks and feels,
Metal and Aqua.
The other thing that you should know
when you're doing general analysis
is that Java Dev is a really,
really good resource.
How many folks here are on Java Dev?
I probably know some of
you from not your faces,
but your emails.
Java Dev is really technical,
and it's really friendly.
So I encourage everyone to sign up
and become part of this mailing list.
So that's one bug all the way through.
We saw the Java side,
we saw the native side,
we saw basically that you need to
send it to Apple or think about it.
Let's talk a little bit about
how I learned about things,
because I think it's a good
way to learn about things.
Let's take things apart.
Um,
hopefully you'll--won't be the villain.
You'll be the good guy,
but we'll be deft about
taking things apart.
So for me, that--I mean,
that's how I learned.
So, the other thing is,
sometimes you use other people's bits,
and you sort of need to know how to
get at all the bits of those bits.
And I have one--one sort of plug here,
you know,
use your powers for good and not evil.
Everything I'm about to tell you can
be used to steal other people's code.
Don't do that.
Um, but let's get right into it.
There are four ways to
deploy Java on the Macintosh,
and we're gonna take apart
all four of those ways.
We're gonna take apart--we're
gonna start with jar files.
Jar files are sort of the--the, um,
base case of taking things apart.
Uh, so let's talk about how
you pull apart a jar file.
You're pretty much already done
once you have the jar file.
Um, there are--there's a command
up here on the screen that you
should sort of commit to memory,
jar-xvf, and then whatever your
jar file's name is,
.jar, will completely unpackage, uh,
a jar file.
So I'm gonna take a jar file for you.
And the reason that's important
to know about this is many,
many people, including Apple,
we distribute sample code, uh,
as jar files.
So if somebody gives you a sample code,
you know, often the class files,
the executable stuff, the manifest,
and actually the source
will be right there.
Um, so it's good to know
how to pull this apart.
And then if you want to
run it on the command line,
the main class is tucked
away in the manifest,
which I've got up on the
screen here how to get into.
So if you just cat that,
you can find the main class,
and then you can say, "Java,
maybe xrun shark," an important
command to be able to do,
and then the main class,
and then you're done.
So applets are a little
bit trickier to take apart,
especially in these Web 2.0 days,
when more and more people are
deploying not straight HTML.
The first time I had to take
an applet apart was actually,
I was doing a tutorial.
I was walking through a tutorial,
and the person had his applet
up animating-- I forget,
it was spinning a square or something
like that-- and he compiled this code.
Run it, and I compiled the code.
It's a class not found.
And what happened is the person who
was doing the three-page tutorial had
given me his source code for what he
thought of was the important class,
and there was two other
files tucked away,
like a quit handler or
something like that.
So it's important to be
able to get at these bits.
Curl is a good command to know about.
So take a look up at the screen here.
Curl is CURL,
is another way of saying it.
So you can look at URLs.
Dash O is where it's going to
stick the bits when it's done.
It took me a while to find something
that wasn't actually a website.
So xyzcba.org doesn't actually exist,
one of the few websites
that's not taken yet.
And this is how you would pull down
the HTML that was displayed at this
location so you could work with it
in an editor or something like that.
And then you sort of have to
apply your brain a little bit.
You'll have to look for the applet tag.
The applet tag tells you pretty
much everything that you need
to know to get back to the thing
that we talked about a slide ago,
how to get to the jar file.
So in this case, you'd say, oh, OK,
there's where the applet is,
there's the archive,
all the important information.
And then you go and use
curl again to get the jar.
And then once you've done that,
you've sort of got all
the bits in your pocket.
So that's how to pick apart an applet.
Now, most of you folks are,
at least in some sense, Mac developers.
So the best way to deploy a
Java application on the Mac is
to make a bundled application.
And I didn't really understand
application bundles until
I started pulling them apart,
trying to find the Java bits inside.
And you have to dig for a
little bit to get there.
Every application on the Mac is
really just a folder that the finder
knows to treat as a single entity.
So you can actually go in there
and just look at it with LS or CD.
There's a contents folder.
And there's two important
things in the contents folder
that you need to know about.
One is the Info.plist.
And we talk about the Info.plist in
our release notes and things like that.
This is a place where lots of
different Java options happen.
And I just wanted to draw your attention
to it while I had it on the screen.
Everyone should know that
the Info.plist is down
inside the contents area.
And the other thing is if you
keep on digging resources in Java,
that's where you actually find the
jar file that you have deployed.
So if you're like me and you like to
work on the command line and you want
to run your thing from the command line,
that's where you find the bits.
So bundling applications is a big deal.
And so there's a lot of
documentation available so
you you can go dig into that.
Java Web Start is the best way to
deploy your applications cross-platform.
And one of the reasons that I talked
about applets before was because applets
and Java Web Start have a lot in common.
So when you want to pick
apart Java Web Start,
what you're looking for is the JNLP file,
which is just basically an XML file,
really,
that specifies sort of all the bits that
you might need to run Java executable.
So the three sort of important tags that
you want to look for is the home page,
like where all the bits live,
so that you could use, say,
curl to grab them,
the jar file that you're looking for,
and finally, you're going to want
to find the main class.
So look for the word "main." And those
are sort of the three bits that you need
to pull apart a Web Start application.
And sort of the reason to know this
is they're also the three bits that
you need to know to put in there
to deploy a Web Start application,
so sort of turning around,
deploying on the Mac.
So, whew.
[Transcript missing]
OK, Mikey.
So my machine,
it's back up and running again.
And it's back to the state it was
before the terrible things happened.
So let me tell you a little
bit about what happened off
camera while Mikey was talking.
So while you were still showing
your disk partitioning scheme,
I had rebooted into my admin
partition and restored my system,
which I'll talk about in a sec.
And I believe I had finished
restoring about the time you had hand
grenades up on the screen and were
talking about the black box tools.
So I had restored it.
And then I rebooted into the development
partition and made sure everything
was the way I wanted it to be.
And you were talking about threads
and volatility in Java at that point.
And then I got tired and
I had to go sit down.
So that's what happened in a nutshell.
The key point that I wanted to show
you is sort of my recovery strategy,
which is slightly different from
Mikey's multiple partitions.
I don't have as much disk space on my
portable to have a ton of partitions.
So what I do is I freeze-dry
partitions the way I want them to be.
So on this machine, on my data partition,
I have an image that I call Tiger Demo 4.
This is a freeze-dried
image of my demo machine,
my development partition,
the way I wanted it to be.
And I use Disk Utility to restore it.
And I'm just going to go
through the motions here.
I'm not going to re-restore it.
You drag your image into Disk Utility.
Click on it, you choose Restore.
You tell it which image
you want to restore.
You tell it which partition
you want to restore to.
And then you click Restore.
And that's what took a long time,
which is why we did it off camera.
After that,
I now have a development partition that
is back exactly the way I wanted it.
The great thing about
disk images is you can,
as opposed to using the install DVD,
is with disk images you can set
up your users the way you want,
all your system preferences
the way you want,
networking, everything,
and then just freeze it.
Then you can do risky things,
and then you can bring it back to life,
which is what I did.
And the details on how do
you create the disk image,
they're just in Help for Disk Utility.
If you go to Disk Utility Help,
type Restore Image,
you'll find the page that
tells you all the steps to
do to create a restore image.
It's very simple.
But don't forget step eight here,
because it's non-intuitive.
The step eight says choose images,
scan image for restore.
That's right here.
Images, scan image for restore.
There we go.
That was the one key thing
that I thought was not obvious.
Everything else is
pretty straightforward.
You can create images of any partition,
store them on FireWire drives,
store them on servers, and get to them.
And restore your machine,
and then your machine will be back and
ready to do dangerous things again.
Things like handing it off to
a summer intern to do WWDC,
hands-on labs.
Oh, wait, one more thing.
Let me throw this thing away.
It's gone.
All right.
Thank you.
So this is Brett Groshong.
He's an intern with us at Apple Computer.
Before we go off into
the hands-on section,
I wanted to actually tell
you some of the really,
really cruel things that
we did to Barry's computer.
We actually went into his systems folder
and we removed all the frameworks.
We took them all away.
And I think we started
killing processes after that.
So it was pretty severe.
So let's talk about Shark,
because Shark is like a really,
really great tool.
Dr.
Evil would be proud.
Shark is super powerful,
and you can do amazing things.
So I wanted to throw up one
more time the required hands-on
material for this section.
I really think that everyone in
this room who's got a portable
should do the Tai Chi thing and do
what I do and do what Brett does.
So I'm going to give you a few
seconds to get your portals out.
Wanted to give you a fair warning.
In the run-throughs for this,
we actually had one or two
people over the course of the
several run-throughs crash.
So now is a good time to,
if you're chatting, say goodbye.
I'm going to pay attention
to Mikey for a while.
If you've been composing an email,
save that and quit mail.
And I really do want people to take
the time to do this hands-on section,
or at least pay really close attention
as we go through the hands-on section.
So just to get a sense,
how many people are going
to work on Shark with me?
Come on, one or two more.
All right.
That's good enough for me.
This is one of my goals.
Let's go to B.
Okay, so you should all have some version
of the Chud tools and you should have
a sort of deeply flawed application
that Brett and I have put together
for sort of showing performance.
So we're going to do a few steps.
We're going to launch Shark which will
sort of satisfy one of my burning desires
which is to get more people to run Shark,
and then we're going to go into
the block animation folder and
we're going to do this old school.
We're going to bring up the terminal
and compile it there and run it there,
and then we're going to look
at it in Shark unsuccessfully,
and then we're going to
look at it successfully,
sort of carry on from there.
So let's get started.
So the first thing that I want you
to do is go into slash developer
or so go to your root volume and
Go into /developer, applications.
Don't do this as fast as I'm saying.
Applications, performance tools, Shark.
So, applications, performance tools.
And everyone go ahead and launch Shark.
Okay, who's got Shark up and running?
I'm going to wait for
a few more hands here.
I really want everyone to run
Shark because it's such a great tool.
Okay, so, Shark is running.
So now--forget about Shark,
because there's other not so
great things to do--we're gonna
do the block animation demo.
So if you guys have downloaded this in,
like, DMG form,
you can't edit a mounted DMG.
So make sure that you drag that
into a folder or something like that
so that you can actually edit it.
So--and now,
I want everyone to go to the terminal.
So if you're Black Belt,
you can do this in, like,
four keystrokes,
but we're gonna do it the long way.
We're gonna actually go
/applications/utilities/ terminal for T.
Launch the terminal.
OK, how many folks are with
me in the terminal now?
Cool.
This is great.
I haven't lost anyone.
OK, so now cd, change directory.
So we're going to make the
working directory be the block
animation demo working directory.
So cd, and then you can either drag
block animation into the terminal,
or Brett's a good typist,
so he's going to type the whole thing.
No, he's not.
He's going to do that.
Anyway, so I want you to change
directory to block animation.
Go ahead and hit return, Brett.
Now you don't have to do this ls thing,
but I'm going to make sure
that he's the right place.
I'll type ls, Brett.
And sure enough, there's my Java file.
Now I don't know which version
of Java you guys are running,
so I want to recompile this,
and I want everyone else
to recompile it too.
So now the way you compile in
the terminal is to say javac.
So javac space capital block
capital animation dot java.
and Richard Okay,
so how many people are now
compiling my interesting but
deeply flawed animation demo?
Okay, so not everyone yet,
so I'm going to wait a
little bit longer here.
Compiling, compiling, compiling.
Okay, good enough.
So let's run it.
Java, space, capital block,
capital animation, no Java now,
because--and it should run.
Okay, how many of you see something
similar to what's up on the screen?
I'm going to wait a little bit
longer for people to catch up,
because it's important
to be able to see this.
Cool.
So I'm going at the right speed.
So let me talk about
what's going on here.
We have a big J frame,
and then we have lots and lots
and lots of panels inside that.
And every panel has a timer
task associated with it.
And every second, plus a little bit,
the timer task fires and says,
repaint me.
And repaint me with a different color.
And so it kind of grinds away.
So let's take a look at this with Shark,
and we'll bump into the first
problem that everyone who tries
to do a Java profile bumps into.
So let's bring Shark forward, everybody.
So go down into your
dock and click on Shark.
And what we want to do is a
Java profile of this thing.
So let's go down to the ninth item.
He's going to hold that
pop-up for a long time,
but you guys can just go down to
Java Time Profile and select that.
So go ahead.
So Java Time Profile.
Now,
how many people see nothing available?
So this is the first problem
that everybody who bumps
into a problem bumps into,
and I wanted to actually do this
in the hands-on to drive home what
you have to do to fix this problem.
So what you have to do to fix
this problem is type x run shark.
It's a command that you need to
give Java to give it a few hints.
Actually, it turns on some JVM PI bits
that Shark can use to
find out what's going on.
So let's go back to the application,
click on it, and just quit.
Okay,
so how many have had the thing go by?
Great.
Now, I want you to run it again.
javaspace-X-run-shark.
I'll let you look at what Brett's
got up on stage here so that you
can get it typed in correctly.
And what you will see is
Shark for Java enabled.
So this is your cue that you've
done everything correctly.
So how many people have now
got Shark for Java enabled?
OK.
Anybody who's actually not
doing this on the portable,
sort of scoot over to somebody else,
because this is so cool.
Okay, good.
So this is the other thing,
which is I think that the, so let's,
let's,
Well, I talk about crashing things.
You try to put this in a bigger font in
the terminal so that they can see it.
So bugreporter.apple.com.
Like I said, sharks have teeth.
You know, sometimes we have definitely
seen people crashing this,
but for the person who, like,
shouted out, um, "Take the time.
"Take the time to put the crash
log "and what steps you did
in Bug Reporter," because we
really--we do have a staff team on
the other end of this way cool tool.
Um, and they need to know that there
are Java developers out here
who desperately want to profile
their applications with Shark.
Um, I don't know exactly what you did.
We definitely are looking for, like,
exactly the steps to
reproduce this problem.
We know it exists, so anyway.
And now you can see...
and David Koehn.
So let's go back to Shark.
Those of you who haven't crashed,
And now you should see that Java is
available for being profiled now.
So how many folks actually now have
Java as something that they can profile?
Cool.
Okay, so the way that the Java profile
looks is it takes time slices.
Boom, boom, boom.
It looks at what's going on.
So I don't want you to
start doing that yet,
because I want everyone who
hasn't crashed to have a really
successful experience with Shark.
So go to the Config menu first,
in case your machine is not as
fast as Brett's fast machine,
and go to the Mini Config Editor.
Ring it up.
And it's set by default to take really,
really quick samples.
And that can overwhelm things,
especially if you have a really badly
written block animation demo running.
So change that to be 50.
So only take 20 samples a second.
Don't take quite so many
samples every second.
And now I'd like everyone to press start,
and then give yourself about a two count.
One, two, three, and press stop.
Okay, everyone who's done this has now
successfully profiled a Java application.
You should see,
everyone's going to see something
a little bit different because,
you know,
we're all on different machines with
different timings and stuff like that.
But now you can see where my
code is spending all of its time.
So how many folks see something
sort of like what we've got here?
Now I don't think we
can fix the font here,
but scooch over to somebody else's
machine and look what's going on,
or look up close.
So,
So this is really cool.
This tells you where you're
spending all of your time,
while your application is going.
And it's as easy as this to
profile a Java application.
Now, I've been using performance
tools for a really long time,
because I've been programming
for a really long time.
And one of the things that's great
about Shark is they've taken,
iteratively,
really advice from people like me,
and smarter people than me.
And they've incorporated into Shark.
And one of things that you'll probably
see is that you're not spending a lot
of time actually in code that has the
word block animation anywhere there.
So one of the cool tools that
Shark has is called a data mining tool.
So what we're going to do is I want
everyone to select the first line
and go to the data mining tools.
And what we're going to
do is we're going to say,
any time that you spend,
we're going to take the
most expensive function,
and we're going to charge it upwards.
So go to the first line and say,
charge library to callers.
Now, he's in Java.
He's in Lang.
But you might be in like Apple A,
but he-- so go ahead and do this, Brett.
Charge it up to callers.
And what that's done is that's taken all
the time that you spent in that library,
and it said,
I don't care about that library.
I want you to pretend that you're in the
library that was sitting right above it.
And actually,
I want everyone in the audience,
and Brett here,
to do that a couple more times until
we're actually up into code that
has the word block animation in it.
It might take a while.
If you've taken a long sample,
it might take three or four, maybe,
hours.
But it's a good idea to do that.
And then you can see that
the code charges upwards.
And everyone should keep on
charging it up until you get to
a blank line in library there.
And the word block animation
should be one of the symbols that
you see in the symbol section.
How many of you folks see a,
are already charged all the way up?
How many of you folks
are still charging up?
Okay, keep on charging up, because, um,
and Brett's going to
do the same thing here.
The reason that I'm doing this
is not just to show you that
you can charge things upwards,
because I want to get to what I think
is the most compelling view of-- I mean,
this is the thing that sold me on Shark.
So who's--I mean,
how many people are charged
all the way up here?
Should I wait for anybody else?
Okay, let's go on.
So what I want you to do now is go to
that blank field in the library section,
and I want you to
double-click right there.
Okay, this is a super cool view.
Like, this is showing you in your code
on a line-per-line basis where
you are spending your time.
This, like, totally sold me on Shark.
When I saw this, I'm like, okay,
I have to have Shark.
And this is just, like,
one of the many things that Shark can do.
So what you're seeing now, hopefully,
if you're having a successful
demo or hands-on experience,
is that you're spending pretty much
all of your time calling FillRect and
a little bit of your time doing some
other things like setting the color.
So how many people are
still with me here?
Aside from Brett, who's, of course,
still with me.
Great.
Okay, so now you have profiled
a Java application,
and you have sort of seen where
it's spending all your time.
And you should do this
to your applications,
because you can learn a lot of stuff
about the real-time performance
of your application this way.
Okay, so I'm gonna pick up the pace a
little bit here so you guys can stop,
like, trying to follow along and
sort of watch on screen.
We're gonna close this profile,
and we're gonna sort of dig
into some other aspects of the
runtime characteristics of this
program with another profile.
So, Brett, let's go to the second
profile that we like to do.
We're gonna do System Trace.
So we'll just start it
and stop it briefly.
And the great view--this is a really
good view for getting sort of a
global picture of what's going on,
not just in your system,
but-- not just in your application,
but in the whole system.
And this is really powerful,
'cause it's watching every single
kernel call on every single thread,
um, and providing you that
information in real time,
uh, sort of, uh,
on a really fine-grained basis.
And this will actually, um,
let us see what's--what's
wrong with my--my sort of
poorly-written block animation demo.
The other--I mean,
the other view was sort of interesting.
It told us we were spending a
lot of time filling rectangles,
but that wasn't too surprising.
Um, I mean,
of course you're filling rectangles.
You're doing, like,
lots of little flashy animations.
So this is sort of a big summary view.
We're gonna go to the
timeline trace view,
'cause this is--this is the other sort
of selling people on Shark portion.
So every single thread has got
every single kernel call and a stack
associated with that kernel call,
like, sort of-- right there.
So you really can see at a
really close level what's
going on with your application.
But let's go into sort of the
course level of what's going
on with this application.
Um, you can see that we
have a lot of threads.
I mean, we have a lot of threads,
a really, really lot of threads.
Um, and they're all very,
very occasionally, about once a second,
making a kernel call.
Now,
this is the wrong way to do animation,
so-- that's how we're
doing for time here.
Good.
Let's actually fix this, um, problem,
Brett.
So we actually--this is--this is--
one of the reasons that I wanted to
do this particular demo is as we were
coming up with the demo to show you
guys and to have you walk through,
we actually sort of
inadvertently inserted this
real-life bug into the problem,
into the program.
So we're going to fix it.
So let's go into the-- we'll
launch it in our favorite editor,
which is Xcode, or Emacs, whichever,
or VI.
So what we've got is we've
got really three classes here.
We've got the J frame,
which holds everything.
We've got J panels,
which do the little animation.
And it turns out that what we did
incorrectly is timers-- you only really
need one timer thread associated with
any given set-- any given application.
And what we did is we instantiated
a timer-- not just a timer
task to do the animation,
but a timer thread, too,
in every single one of those J panels.
So all we needed to do to fix this bug,
and what Brett's doing now,
is we pulled that timer
out of the J panel,
just sort of hoisted
it up into the J frame,
and recompiled.
So all you need to do is take
it out of the inner class,
make it a private timer in the J frame,
and recompile and rerun.
And all of a sudden, you'll have--
The thing to take home here is
that there are different aspects of
performance that you need to think about.
If you're doing animation correctly,
We here?
Pardon me?
I also crashed the show.
Okay, good.
So you should file a bug.
bugreporter.apple.com.
Shark is a great tool,
but it does have teeth.
You just have to be aware of that.
I think that one of the
reasons that crashes too is,
I think many systems don't like to
have 600 animation threads running
at a time while you're doing really,
really low-level probing of the system.
John, did it crash?
Okay.
Well, again, 600 threads doing animation
all at the same time can...
Okay, bugreporter.apple.com.
We take all of them seriously,
and we'll actually go into that.
And so, so here we are, running again.
It actually performs
essentially the same,
but now it's doing it with, like,
one animation thread.
Now, since we're using timers,
the frequency is going to be the same.
But if you look at it in the other
really course level performance tool,
Activity Monitor,
everyone should know that
if you can't use Shark,
you can always use Activity
Monitor to get a really course
idea of what's going on.
And now you can see that in the
old version we had 591 threads,
and in the new version we have 14.
So much happier.
Hopefully,
you guys have all followed along with me,
seen that sharks have teeth,
but also seen that you can
profile a job application.
Let's go back to slides, please.
So there's two other modes of Shark that
you should sort of know exist.
There's one for watching allocations,
and there's one for watching
on a method-by-method level.
And there's two other sessions
that I want to point you at.
So take a quick look at the slide,
because they're going away.
One's tomorrow morning, bright and early,
performance--not tomorrow morning,
Thursday morning, bright and early.
And the other one is just generally
performance tools in the Mac,
which will include Shark.
So there's two other modes of Shark that
you should sort of know exist.
There's one for watching allocations,
and there's one for watching
on a method-by-method level.
And there's two other sessions
that I want to point you at.
So take a quick look at the slide,
because they're going away.
One's tomorrow morning, bright and early,
performance--not tomorrow morning,
Thursday morning, bright and early.
And the other one is just generally
performance tools in the Mac,
which will include Shark.
Inside Apple.
It's not quite like being
inside an alien vessel,
but there are similarities
because it is a bug hunt.
So Apple is--so this is the
history according to Mikey.
Once upon a time,
a really smart person at
Apple wrote a really cutting
edge tool for tracking bugs.
We call it--it's called Radar.
It's internal only unfortunately.
But for its time, it was just, like,
the best way for handling
bugs that existed.
And this was like 10 or 12 years ago,
14 years ago.
And consequently,
because it was such a good tool,
Apple became sort of bug-centric
in its process so that,
you know, 10 years later,
we're still very, very bug-centric.
If I wanted to go and change Java code
just to the point of saying this,
you know, cwindow.m needs more comments,
I would write a bug saying, "Bug title,
cwindow.m needs more comments,"
and put it in state analyze.
And so the development process
inside of Apple has it be the
case that anytime we touch code,
we have a bug that's associated with that
code talking about what the problem is.
So this is a powerful thing for you
folks to realize and it's why I've been
hammering home bugreporter.apple.com.
Like, for things to change,
there--we speak bug.
Everything that we--that we do internally
sort of has a bug attached to it.
So if you know sort of the
language that we're talking,
which is bug,
then you have more power over us and
you can get us to do what you want.
So, yeah, so bugs.
Bugs are really important
and Apple is bug-driven.
Java at Apple is very, very bug-driven.
[Transcript missing]
The other thing is give us some clue
about how important the bug is in sort
of the grand scheme of things to you.
So if this is keeping you from
switching from 1.4 to 1.5,
we need to know that because
we want everyone to go to 1.5.
If this is going to prevent
you from going from 1.5 to 1.6,
or if this is, you know,
I can't deploy to 20,000 customers,
tell us because we need to know.
And we sort of factor that in.
Now this one should be obvious and
it's sort of annoying that it's true.
But if you sort of keep
coming back--and again,
this goes back to developer
previews--be persistent.
Be a champion of the things
that you want to get fixed.
And that works really well.
The way that this ties into developer
previews is if you get a developer
preview from us and you happen to know
that there's one particular bug that
you would really like for us to address,
and you actually say, you know,
take the time to say,
"Does the bug still happen?" and
you put that information in the bug,
we know that you still care.
We know that there's at least one
person out there who like still today,
honest to God,
wants this bug to be fixed.
So be persistent and keep
coming back to your bugs.
Don't let us let them die.
We have great bug tracking tools,
but the more that you do to
sort of keep the bugs that
you care about the most hot,
the more that we can do.
The other thing is that, you know,
every now and then we get, like,
a bunch of bugs that we're like,
you know, Java does the wrong
thing and you get really,
really angry.
Like, try to keep that out of the bugs.
It won't actually make your bug go
faster to be nice to me and my team,
but what will actually happen
is we will last longer.
So you know, we won't burn out.
So let me just run through the last,
like, hour and 15 minutes.
Talked about Developer Previews.
I think they're really important.
As long as I've been at Apple,
and probably as long
as I will be at Apple,
I'll be pushing for Developer Previews.
So use what I'm giving you.
Talked a bit about the basic tools.
Kill-Quit is one that
everyone should know.
We did a sort of really
deep crash analysis,
walked it all the way
through all the logs.
Talked about how to pull things apart.
We went hands-on with Shark.
Thank you all for profiling
a Java application with me.
And then I talked a bit about
what goes on inside Apple.
So we've got about five minutes left.
Here are some other sessions
that you might want to attend.